# app-containers/distrobuilder
app-arch/wimlib

# app-containers/docker
app-containers/slirp4netns
sys-apps/rootlesskit

# app-containers/incus
app-containers/skopeo
app-containers/umoci

# app-containers/lxc
app-containers/lxc-templates
sys-process/criu

# app-i18n/translate-shell
app-misc/rlwrap

# app-office/scribus
app-text/antiword

# app-text/djvu
app-text/djview

# dev-lang/julia
sci-visualization/gr

# dev-lang/rust
app-vim/rust-vim

# dev-libs/geoip
net-misc/geoipupdate

# dev-python/fs
dev-python/paramiko

# dev-python/httpcore
dev-python/socksio

# dev-python/ipython
dev-python/line-profiler
dev-python/sympy

# dev-python/jupyter-lsp
dev-python/python-lsp-server

# dev-python/lxml
dev-python/cssselect
dev-python/lxml-html-clean

# dev-python/mpmath
dev-python/gmpy2

# dev-python/pandas
dev-python/blosc
dev-python/rpy2
dev-python/sqlalchemy
dev-python/statsmodels
dev-python/tables

# dev-python/pipdeptree
dev-python/graphviz

# dev-python/rich
dev-python/ipywidgets

# dev-python/rpy2
dev-python/ipython

# dev-python/sqlalchemy
dev-python/greenlet
dev-python/psycopg:2

# dev-util/kdevelop
dev-util/clazy
dev-util/cppcheck
dev-util/heaptrack
dev-util/indent
dev-util/uncrustify

# dev-util/source-highlight
dev-util/ctags

# gnome-base/gnome-shell
gnome-extra/gnome-browser-connector

# kde-apps/cantor
sci-mathematics/maxima

# kde-apps/lokalize
app-text/languagetool

# kde-frameworks/kfilemetadata
app-text/catdoc
dev-libs/libxls

# kde-frameworks/solid
app-misc/media-player-info

# kde-plasma/kinfocenter
app-text/aha

# mail-client/thunderbird
net-libs/libotr

# media-gfx/sane-backends
media-gfx/sane-airscan

# media-libs/libvisual
media-plugins/libvisual-projectm

# media-video/pipewire
sys-auth/rtkit

# net-libs/webkit-gtk
media-plugins/gst-plugins-dash
media-plugins/gst-plugins-hls

# net-misc/modemmanager
sys-apps/usb_modeswitch

# net-print/cups
sys-auth/nss-mdns

# sys-block/nbdkit
dev-libs/libisoburn

# sys-kernel/dracut
sys-block/nbd
